.\" Man page for hwview
.TH HWVIEW 1 "January 2026" "hwview 0.0.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
hwview \- cross-platform hardware information viewer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hwview
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hwview
is a cross-platform hardware viewer application that displays hardware devices, drivers,
and system resources on Linux, macOS, and Windows. It provides a graphical interface
similar to Windows Device Manager.
.SH OPTIONS
.B hwview
is primarily a graphical application and does not take command-line options in normal use.
.PP
When built with the headless option (\fBHWVIEW_CLI_ONLY\fR), it can export device information
to JSON format without requiring a display.
.SH VIEWS
The application provides multiple views for examining system hardware:
.TP
.B Devices by type
Categorised view of devices with ability to show drivers in use.
.TP
.B Devices by connection
Hierarchical view showing the device tree.
.TP
.B Devices by driver
Devices grouped by their kernel driver.
.TP
.B Drivers by type
Drivers organised by device category.
.TP
.B Drivers by device
Drivers with their associated devices.
.TP
.B Resources by type
Flat view of system resources (IRQs, I/O ports, memory ranges, DMA channels).
.TP
.B Resources by connection
Resources shown in hierarchy.
.SH DEVICE PROPERTIES
Detailed information is available for each device including:
.IP \(bu 2
General device information (type, manufacturer, location)
.IP \(bu 2
Driver details (provider, version, digital signer, files)
.IP \(bu 2
Device-specific properties (hardware IDs, compatible IDs, etc.)
.IP \(bu 2
System events related to the device
.IP \(bu 2
Hardware resources (IRQ, memory ranges, I/O ports)
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ${datadir}/hwview/name-mappings.json
Device name mappings database.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B QT_QPA_PLATFORM
Can be set to specify the Qt platform plugin (e.g., \fBwayland\fR, \fBxcb\fR).
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Tatsh.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at <https://github.com/Tatsh/hwview/issues>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2025-2026 Tatsh.
.br
Licensed under the MIT License.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lspci (8),
.BR lsusb (8),
.BR udevadm (8)
